
# M.U.R.A.L-2.0 : Machine-aided Understanding and Recognition of Artistic Legacies 2.0

## Introduction
Link to web application: [M.U.R.A.L-2.0](https://mural-20-mt7hgbd42psylfrr4pcfs6.streamlit.app/)

M.U.R.A.L-2.0 stands for Machine-aided Understanding and Recognition of Artistic Legacies version 2.0. This application is a reimplementation of my original passion project called M.U.R.A.L which used very primitive GUI implementation and was not designed to be hosted online.

M.U.R.A.L-2.0 is a made to be available for anyone and everyone on internet. The entire GUI of previous implementation was done from scratch using `streamlit` framework. This project was also hosted on Streamlit cloud and it's code is available on github.com.

While developing M.U.R.A.L-2.0 the CNN model used in previous versions was replaced with a bigger and better implementation that is trained on a larger and diverse dataset and is more suited to handle real world use cases.

- Important details:
  - It is made using `streamlit` application for front-end.
  - The new CNN model available was created again using `tensorflow` and `keras` and a better transfer learning approach rather than training a completely new CNN from scratch.
      - link: [Ai_Identifier]()
  - The application is has a gateway file inside the `src/` directory with name `main.py`. This file uses functionality driven custom module for backend and program logic that was made from scratch and is stored in the `src/Modules/` directory named `Backend.py`.

## Functionality
- **Artwork Identification**: M.U.R.A.L-2.0 employs advanced machine learning techniques like transfer learning to identify and categorize artworks into two categories as AI or Human origined art.
- **Human vs AI Recognition**: The application determines whether a piece of art is crafted by a human artist or generated by AI.
- **Credit Attribution**: By distinguishing between human and AI-generated art, M.U.R.A.L-2.0 aids in giving due credit to human creators.
- **Easy access**:This version of M.U.R.A.L-2.0 is hosted online as a simple Web application which makes it available to everyone in a single click.
- **Metadata extractions**: This application give you feature of extracting camera lens information,location information and similar image related metadata that can be usefull for knowing device which took the photo.

## Technological Stack
- Python
- TensorFlow and Keras and RESNET50 model(Machine Learning)
- PIL (Python Imaging Library)
- Streamlit library for front-end application creation. (GUI)
- Poetry for deppendency management and packaging (Dependency handling)
- Numpy (Accelerated vector computing)
- Backend (Custom backend module)

## Project Directory Structure
The projecct is structured as follows.

```
.
│   .gitignore
│   LICENSE
│   poetry.lock
│   pyproject.toml
│   README.md
│   requirements.txt
│
└───src
    │   main.py
    │
    ├───Models
    │       AI_vs_Human_model.h5
    │
    ├───Module
    │   │   Backend.py
    │   │   __init__.py
    │   │
    │   └───__pycache__
    │           Backend.cpython-310.pyc
    │           Backend.cpython-311.pyc
    │           __init__.cpython-310.pyc
    │           __init__.cpython-311.pyc
    │
    └───Website_images
            AIvsHuman.jpg
```

## How to Use
- **Step 1**: Read the summary
- **Step 2**: Go to try M.U.R.A.L
- **Step 3**: Click Upload Image button
- **Step 4**: Get metadata for image
- **Step 5**: Click Predict
- **Step 6**: View Result

## About Author
This application is made entirely from scratch, including the building of the neural network and the application, by Malhar Girgaonkar. I have a deep appreciation for art in all its shapes and forms. The current trend of AI gaining popularity in creative fields, which is at the forefront of what defines humans, has caused many artists to lose their mental peace due to job security and replacement fears by the more powerful, productive, and efficient AI.

I believe that certain things cannot be replicated by AI, as art is something that comes from the soul and not just blatant learning from other artists, which I firmly believe is a form of artistic theft. As an artist and a student of computer science, I considered this project as my personal contribution to help art and artists get the recognition they deserve.

## Contact
- Email: [malhargirgaonkarr@gmail.com](malhargirgaonkarr@gmail.com)
- Linkedin : [Malhar Girgaonkar](https://www.linkedin.com/in/malhar-girgaonkar-b9223a28a?utm_source=share&utm_campaign=share_via&utm_content=profile&utm_medium=android_app)
- Github : [Malhar Girgankar](https://github.com/Malhar-Girgaonkar)

## License
This project is under the MIT License.

## Contributing
Contributions to M.U.R.A.L-2.0 are welcome. If you encounter issues or have ideas for improvement, please open an issue or submit a pull request.
